MAN 1: New man coming!
( alarm blaring )
MAN 2: New prisoner!
Get out of my way!
New man coming!
MAN 3:
Get out of my way!
MAN 2:
( alarm blaring )
MAN 2: Here he comes!
Get ready! Let's go!
Hurry up! They're gonna
push off! Let's go!
MAN 3:
New prisoner!
MAN 2:
MAN 3: Hey! Something's
coming down there!
( grunts )
( prisoners clamoring )
Hey, get out of my...
( prisoners yelling )
( grunts )
( grunting )
Kill him! Kill him!
Tom.
( grunts )
( prisoners cheering )
( coughs )
theme music playing )
( dramatic
( groans softly )
Nobody touch him.
He's mine.
Wait. This is a mistake.
I don't belong here!
You don't?
Well, I'll just take
you home, then.
All right?
This one's mine.
I say he's not.
He's the reason
that I'm here.
He was my partner
in a bombing.
We killed 47 patrollers
on Akritiri-- 47!
confessed to the tribunal
And then this scum
and gave them my name.
So I'm telling you again,
he's mine.
I'm keeping him.
( sighs )
Take him.
For now.
KIM:
Did you have
to hit me so hard?
PARIS:
Trust me-- around here,
you don't want anybody
thinking you're soft.
Thanks for the tip.
Is there any food?
to eat since I got here.
I haven't had anything
How long is that?
A couple of days.
Some shore leave, huh?
( scoffs )
after they split us up?
What happened to you
The Akritirians
interrogated me.
When I wouldn't confess
to the bombing,
they dragged me
in front of a judge.
He said you'd already
confessed for the both of us,
and then
he pronounced me guilty.
what happened to me.
That's exactly
have drugged me,
Then they must
because the next
thing I knew,
bottom of the chute
I woke up at the
to that welcoming party.
We've got to explain
to somebody
that there's been
a mistake.
Who did you have in mind?
A guard.
The warden.
anybody like that.
I haven't seen
A prison without guards?
The other inmates say
meters underground.
this place is 300
Maybe the Akritirians figure
guards aren't necessary.
Can I have some more?
What do you think
this is?
There isn't any more!
A hotel?
Take it easy!
( sighs )
I'm sorry.
starting to get edgy.
I'm... really
I think it's the clamp.
The what?
That's what the prisoners
call it.
Everybody has one.
What is it?
I'm guessing it's some kind
of synaptic stimulator.
Anyway, it's affecting
my nervous system.
I've been getting jumpier
ever since I got here.
this thing itches like crazy.
Not to mention,
What do you think it's for?
Maybe it's some kind
of torture device.
taking them out.
We could try
No! I saw someone try it.
It killed him.
What we have to do
is find a way out
of this place.
Hm.
Let's get something
straight first.
What?
The next time you take
a swing at me,
I'm hitting back.
( alarm blaring )
What's that?
Another prisoner,
maybe?
Food coming!
PRISONER:
Join me for dinner?
Food!
( clamoring )
( screaming )
No! There's got
to be more!
( screams )
( groans )
I don't think he was going
to eat it anyway, do you?
He's dead.
I think I've lost
my appetite.
JANEWAY: Captain's Log,
Stardate 50156.2.
After 72 hours,
Lieutenant Paris
are still missing,
and Ensign Kim
and I'm quickly
losing patience
with the Akritirian
authorities.
They continue to deny us
access to the surface,
and they've yet to confirm
were killed in the bombing.
whether our crewmen
Anything?
I have completed another
full sensor sweep,
including a multispectral
subsurface scan.
I still cannot locate
their life signs
or their combadges.
CHAKOTAY:
Captain,
Ambassador Liria
is hailing us.
On screen.
for good news today, Ambassador.
I'm only in the mood
I'm afraid I can't oblige.
LIRIA:
Are you saying
they're dead?
very much alive.
No, they're
Then where
are they?
Your men have been convicted
of the terrorist bombing
at the Laktivia recreational
facility, which resulted
off-duty patrollers.
in the death of 47
I assure you,
Ambassador,
my people had nothing to do
with this attack.
We found chemical traces
of the explosive used
in the bombing
on their hands and clothing.
the same could be said
I'm sure
of anyone who was near
the explosion.
It's hardly enough evidence
for a conviction.
was trilithium based.
The explosive
There is no source
anywhere in our system.
of trilithium
So, you can imagine
when our investigation revealed
our surprise
that your ship is powered
by dilithium--
tell us is convertible
which our scientists
into trilithium.
We have long suspected
that the so-called
Open Sky terrorists
had off-world collaborators.
Now we know who they are.
Captain, two Akritirian ships
are approaching
271 mark 64.
at bearing
for inspection, Captain.
Prepare your ship
If it will help confirm
our innocence, I'll consider it.
But first, I want to know
where my people are being held,
and I want to talk
to them immediately.
Communication with inmates
is not permitted.
If you want my cooperation,
Ambassador,
you're going to have
to do better than that.
you've misunderstood me.
Perhaps
Let me clarify our position.
is being impounded.
Your vessel
You and your crew
are under arrest.
Prepare to be boarded.
Captain, their ships
are powering weapons.
Mr. Tuvok, raise shields.
Mr. Chakotay, take the conn.
I'd like to resolve
this situation
peacefully, Ambassador,
but let me clarify my position.
this ship to be boarded.
I will not allow
is an error in judgment.
That, Captain,
dramatic score playing )
( intense
Captain, should I
return fire?
That's not going to help us
get Tom and Harry back.
We need to regroup.
Get us out of here, Commander.
Aye, Captain.
CHAKOTAY:
( soft chattering )
( footsteps approaching )
What took you so long?
I've been back
at least half an hour.
You're starting to
feel it, aren't you?
I guess I am.
It gets worse
all the time.
We have to fight it.
something positive.
Let's focus on
How about...
a seven-course dinner?
I suppose you didn't
find any food.
Well... I found close
to 50 good citizens
little community,
in this quaint
but not a grocer
among them.
I take it that's a no.
Yeah.
our hands on some food,
But if we ever do get
spot for a picnic.
I found a lovely
Great.
are the Delaney sisters,
All we need
make a day of it.
and we could
So, how about you?
Come across anything
interesting
in your travels?
If you mean an escape route,
I ran into nothing
but solid walls.
( sighs heavily )
Me, too.
the only way to the surface
As far as I can see,
in the main chamber.
is that chute
How do we get into it
The question is:
without getting fried
by that force field?
to the man who reached inside.
You saw what happened
might come in handy.
That's where this
I thought if
we could get
some loose wiring,
our hands on
you might be able to use it
to rig a device
that would short out
the force field,
to get into the tube.
long enough for us
It's worth a try.
Yeah.
Now, if we could only
figure out a way
to short out these implants,
we'd be all set.
There's no indication
they followed us.
I guess they're
more interested
in getting rid of us
than finding out the truth.
B'Elanna...
We've got to go back
for Harry and Tom.
We have no information
as to their whereabouts,
and if we return
to Akritirian space,
we are sure to encounter
further hostilities.
Let's concentrate on
Tuvok is right.
Harry and Tom's innocence.
proving
How do we do that?
We know the explosive
was trilithium-based.
If we find the source
of that trilithium,
to the real bombers.
it may lead us
Our long-range scans indicate
that Liria was right.
There's no trilithium
in this sector.
What about paralithium?
It's used as a fuel
for some ion-based
propulsion systems
and it can be converted
into trilithium.
Review our sensor logs
of ships entering and leaving
Akritirian space
we were in orbit.
during the time
If anybody's using
paralithium for fuel,
I want to find out
who they are
and where they went.
Come on, come on, come on...
Take it easy.
You'll get it.
( object clangs )
( breathing heavily )
( stamps foot )
I can't think!
I can't concentrate!
concentrate on this.
Okay, okay,
Uh... Um...
Crown roast of lamb
a bed of wild rice
with, uh...
Lafite Rothschild...
and a 2296 Chateau
at the real Sandrine's.
Or how about shrimp
with fettran sauce,
flambé noodles,
and fudge ripple pudding.
Good one.
Okay. Uh...
A couple of barbecued
T-bone steaks
with baked Risan beans
and... cherry pie
for dessert.
Let's see you
top that one.
Right now, I'm so hungry,
Neelix's leola root stew.
I could eat a bowl of
Me, too.
Never thought
I'd say that.
give it a try.
I'm ready to
So far, so good.
( grunts )
Are you okay?
What are you doing?
Just out for a
little stroll.
Move it!
What's that?
A pipe.
Let's see it.
Come on.
I'd really recommend
that you stay
out of my way.
Heh. You should have
thought of that
before you took him!
( clamoring )
Come on, Tom!
( grunts )
Tom!
( screaming )
Back off! Back off!
Hang on. I'm getting
you out of here.
No fight. No fight.
bleed to death,
If he doesn't
from infection.
he'll die
We've got to get him
to a doctor.
Of course. We'll call
an emergency vehicle
to a hospital.
and rush him
( prisoners laughing )
( groaning )
Hey!
for the dead man's boots?
What do you want
MAN 1: Nice!
MAN 2: I'll take
his shirt, too.
You can make it.
Just a few more steps,
and we'll be back
to the shelter.
Home, sweet home.
Yeah?
Harry.
I'm hurt pretty bad.
care of it.
I'll take
Promise me something.
What?
If things get worse...
to making a choice,
if it comes down
don't worry about me.
Take care of yourself.
Do we have a deal?
Quiet.
Hey!
doing in there?
What are you
This place is ours.
Get out.
Get out! Get out!
Get out!
( footsteps and groaning )
Okay, here's the deal.
My boots for
some clean cloth,
a liter of water,
two of those food cakes,
and my friend gets to stay
in there until he's better.
I don't take in boarders.
What about
the rest of it?
I don't like the color.
( sighs )
Come on, let's go.
going to help us.
This guy's not
Just tell me what you want
and the bandages, okay?
for the food
That pipe you were working with
interests me.
I can't trade the pipe.
we don't have a deal.
Then I guess
You're blocking my light.
Now move on.
I'll take you with me.
Take me where?
out of this place.
I know a way
I've been in here
six years.
I've never heard
of a way out.
The chute.
Anybody that tries
to get in there
gets hit with an energy pulse.
I can disable the force field.
With this pipe,
we can make it to the surface.
With a little luck,
What are you staring at?
I'm trying to figure out
if you're a liar...
already made you crazy.
or if the clamp has
Neither.
And I'll prove it to you.
You stand your ground.
I like that.
Then we have a deal?
Just remember one thing:
If you're lying,
I'll kill you.
Captain's Log, supplemental.
JANEWAY:
So far, we've located
three ships
with paralithium plasma
emissions,
to have produced explosives.
but none of them appears
We're currently in pursuit
of a fourth vessel.
We're in hailing range
of the Akritirian
freighter, Captain.
TUVOK:
I'm only reading
two life signs aboard.
Open a channel.
This is Kathryn Janeway
of the Federation
Starship Voyager
of the Akritirian cargo vessel.
to the captain
I'm the captain
of this vessel.
What do you want?
Two of my crew members
by the Akritirians
were convicted
of a terrorist bombing.
We're trying to prove
their innocence,
and we have reason to believe
a ship like yours,
which uses paralithium for fuel,
might have been involved
in the production
of the explosives.
Let's get out of here.
( whispers )
Quiet.
This is a cargo vessel.
if a few of my crew members
Then you won't mind
come aboard to have
a look around.
Not if they don't mind
having their throats cut.
JANEWAY: There's no need
to be abrupt...
I guess you're not
the only captain
their ship boarded.
who doesn't want
TORRES: Captain,
I'm picking up
residual traces
of trilithium.
but they're there.
They're faint,
I think we may have found
our bomb makers.
a security detail
Mr. Tuvok, send
to Transporter Room 2.
beam the two of them aboard
Lieutenant Torres,
and tractor their ship
into the shuttle bay.
Aye, Captain.
You have no right
to hold us.
have been accused
My people
of aiding a terrorist group
called Open Sky.
know about them?
What do you
They're not
terrorists.
They're patriots.
One day, they'll lead
the legitimate government
of our people.
We don't have
their questions, Piri.
to answer any of
It sounds to me
like your young friend here
sympathizes
with these patriots.
She's not
my friend.
She's my sister.
are none of your business.
And our political views
I don't know much
about your world,
but I do know that my people
for a crime they didn't commit,
are being held
and I'm going to do everything
in my power to get them out.
Do you understand that?
We have confirmed
that explosives
were indeed produced
aboard their ship.
Escort them to the brig.
Aye, Captain.
TUVOK:
And have Mr. Chakotay
lay in a course
for the Akritirian border.
sister go.
Let my
She didn't have anything
to do with the bombing,
and she's only 14.
Prison doesn't
scare me.
Quiet, Piri.
Please.
what you're saying.
You don't know
of prison on Akritiri.
Nobody ever gets out
They'll just let
her rot in there
for the rest of her life.
I admire your desire
to protect your sister, but...
it's not really
up to me, is it?
what we know.
Tell them
Tell me what?
Piri, don't.
Our brigade found out
detention facility is located.
where the maximum security
My sister has quite
a vivid imagination.
you can attack the prison
With this ship,
and get your
people out.
I'm sorry,
that's not how we do things
where I come from.
Coward.
see that they get a bath
Mr. Tuvok,
and a hot meal.
that guy, Harry.
I don't trust
I can handle him.
your back, okay?
Just watch
Try to get some rest.
Remember our deal?
What deal?
If it comes down to it,
you're going to save
yourself, right?
If you see a chance,
just go.
Don't come back for me.
I think the clamp
must really be starting
to make you crazy.
I'm serious, Harry.
Getting tired
of waiting.
I gotta go.
Harry...
Oh! Damn it!
Don't fight it, use it.
How do I do that?
I feel like there's
a million fire ants
in my brain.
Good. Make them
work for you.
How?
Fire ants sound vicious.
Imagine them as your army
moving in a vast wave
to conquer your enemy.
There's a massive struggle
going on inside you--
a battle to the death
between you and the clamp.
You have to use whatever force
you can to defeat it.
use my energy
I'd rather
to work on getting
out of here.
When I first got here,
I assumed the clamp
was just a refined form
of torture
to make our prison stay
that much more arduous.
Gradually, I began
to understand it more fully.
It's all right here
in my manifesto--
my insights, my reasoning...
My evidence.
It's an experiment.
They're studying us
like animals--
pitting us against each other
to find out what happens.
You can see that,
can't you?
I guess so.
The greatest threat,
of course, would be
if we started to cooperate
with each other,
so they prevented that.
But there had to be
more to it than that,
and the longer I was in here,
the more I knew it was my job
to figure it out.
That's the reason
I was put here,
and eventually...
it came to me
had exploded in my mind.
as though a fireball
And the realization gave me
a power over the others.
They don't come
near me anymore.
because I know the truth.
They're afraid of me,
Well...?
Don't you want to know
what it is?
What is the ultimate purpose
of the clamp?
Okay.
It's inspired,
brilliant.
It's a method for controlling
the prison population.
We kill each other off.
Sure. Whatever you say.
So you must enter
into the battle.
If you let the clamp
control you,
like that crazy old man
you'll end up
that took over your shelter.
But if you learn
to control it,
you'll survive...
like me.
( beeping )
Yes.
I plan to be out of here
becomes an issue.
before it even
Go ahead.
Touch it.
( grunting )
What do you see?
Some kind of hatch.
at the surface?
Are we
Heh. Harry.
How are you feeling?
I was dreaming...
about Megan Delaney.
( laughs )
Next time,
I'll try not to wake you.
The chute...
You made it in?
find a way out?
Did you
Not yet...
but we're very close.
It's just a matter of time.
to hang in there, okay?
So you've got
Wh... Wha...
What happened to me?
Easy, Tom.
You got stabbed, remember?
Who...
Who did it?
One of the prisoners.
No, it was you!
No...
to change your bandage.
I'm trying
No! Get away from me!
Please! I'm trying
to help you.
Get away from me!
Tom!
Tom, give me the pipe.
We need it to get out of here.
Remember?
It's okay.
Let me take it.
Harry...
What's happening to me?
You're gonna be okay.
Harry...
Yeah?
Don't leave me here.
Close your eyes.
( prisoners hooting, shouting
and laughing maniacally )
( shouting and wild laughter
continues )
Sleep well?
No.
your friend?
How about
Is he dead yet?
Shut up!
to a docking port, right?
The chute leads
Some kind of ship must come
to drop off food,
drop off new prisoners.
get aboard the ship.
So maybe we could
the best of you.
It's getting
I know we could do it.
You think they're just
gonna open the hatch
and ask us if we'd
like a ride home?
the element of surprise.
We'd have
And they'd have
the pulse guns.
If we could hold them off...
distract them...
just for a few minutes...
establish our location...
I could
That's enough!
MAN:
...get a message to Voyager
get us out of here.
and they could
We'll need weapons.
let anyone see this,
I've never
you read my manifesto.
but I'm going to let
how to control the clamp.
It'll teach you
I don't want to read
your crazy manifesto.
Take it.
Learn everything
I know.
Now, are you going
to help me or not?
If I were like
the others...
I'd kill you.
But I don't lose control.
That's the difference
between me
and you.
Listen to me, everybody!
MAN: Now what's he want?
Listen!
This is important.
I've got something to say.
Something you want to hear.
It's what you've
been waiting for.
What the hell
do you want?
I've found a way
out of here.
( laughter and shouting )
There's no way out.
There is!
Through the chute!
I've been inside.
( grunts )
Listen!
We have to work together.
They'd like us all
to kill each other,
but we have to cooperate.
we can get out of here.
If we do,
If you've been in the chute,
where does it lead?
Yeah! Yeah!
MAN:
Space.
( derisive shouts and laughter )
It's the truth.
We can escape...
if we work together!
( grunts )
What the hell
are you doing?
Stay back.
You've ruined it.
This is mine.
It's mine!
( screaming )
Please! No!
Please!
Harry!
No!
( screaming )
Go ahead.
Finish him.
You wanted to kill him,
didn't you?
He's my best friend!
No, no, that's
where you're wrong.
He's too far gone
to be your friend.
All he is now is a burden.
That's not true!
He eats your food,
he ruined your device--
he's given in
to the clamp.
You've got to get rid of him
before he brings you
down with him.
You've got a chance
Quiet!
to make something
of your life in here,
but as long as that carcass
is in my hut,
we'll never be able to go on
to more important things.
What the hell are
you talking about?
We've got to disseminate
the manifesto,
gather our followers,
train them.
You're insane.
You want my protection?
You want to live
under my roof?
Get rid of him.
your protection!
I don't need
How long do you
think you'll last
against Pit
and the others,
without me
looking out for you?
Go ahead. Take it.
Think of what
a relief it will be
to not have
that responsibility,
to be free
of his ranting.
I'm not a killer.
to survive in here...
If you want
you'd better learn to be.
If that's what it takes
to stay alive...
then I'd rather die.
( shank clangs )
Get out now.
And take him with you...
or I will kill him.
Unless you've decided
to relinquish control
of your vessel, Captain,
I suggest that you do not
proceed across our border.
the ship and crew
We've captured
responsible for the bombing
at the Laktivia Canteen.
I see...
I'm prepared to trade them
and unconditional release
for the immediate
of Lieutenant Paris
and Ensign Kim.
Your crewmen have already
been tried and convicted.
convictions can't be reversed,
Are you saying those
no matter what new evidence
is brought to light?
You are correct.
That is an outrageous policy.
I assure you, it has proved to
be a most effective deterrent.
Good day, Captain.
( sighs in disgust )
So much for negotiating.
with the prisoners?
What should we do
to my ready room. Now.
Bring Vel
I want the location
and shield code
to the maximum security
detention facility.
What's wrong,
the Akritirians didn't
agree to your terms?
No, as a matter of fact.
But I suspect you will.
And what makes you so sure?
Because if you don't,
you and your sister
are going to spend the rest
of your lives in prison.
I'll take you
to the prison,
and I'll get you in,
but there are members
of Open Sky in there
get them out, too.
and I want to
I don't think you understand
the way this works.
what I want to know,
You tell me
and after I get my people back,
I let you and your sister go.
That's not good enough.
Mr. Tuvok, inform
the Akritirians
to turn the prisoners over.
that we're ready
( scoffs )
All right.
Crewman Foster,
TUVOK:
to Commander Chakotay.
take the prisoner
the coordinates and codes.
He will upload
May I ask how you propose
Akritirian patrols?
to get past the
No doubt they will attack
as soon as Voyager
crosses the border.
That's exactly why
the rescue team
won't be aboard Voyager.
Captain?
If I'm not mistaken,
is still in our shuttle bay.
Mr. Neelix's ship
Yes.
Mr. Neelix's vessel
However,
has extremely limited
combat capabilities.
very careful, won't we?
Then we'll have to be
I want his clothes
PIT:
and I want his shoes!
This man is my friend.
Nobody touches him.
Back off! You won't
have to get hurt.
( alarm blaring )
New prisoner!
( inmates clamoring )
I got her!
Hands on your heads.
Do it now!
Neelix to Lieutenant Tuvok.
NEELIX [OVER INTERCOM]:
Go ahead.
We've got company.
Two Akritirian patrol ships
on an intercept course.
I'm not sure how long
I can hold them off.
TUVOK: We are moving as quickly
as we can, Mr. Neelix.
Captain!
KIM:
Where's Tom?
He needs help.
MALE ALIEN: Akritirian patrol
to alien vessel.
Disengage immediately.
Akritirian patrol?
Uh, am I in Akritirian space?
Oh, dear.
the Heva VII refueling port.
I-I thought this was
Uh, you wouldn't, by any chance,
be able to recommend a...
respectable establishment
my navigational array repaired?
where I could have
This is your final warning.
Disengage immediately.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Neelix.
Everyone's aboard.
Acknowledged.
I know it's a little
cramped back there,
so if there's anything I can do
to make you more comfortable...
Just get us out of here!
Neelix!
Of course, Captain.
to Akritirian patrol.
Talaxian vessel
for the little mix-up.
My apologies
I'll be departing now,
per your orders.
and prepare to be boarded.
Power down your engines
That last message was garbled.
Eh, what was that, patrol?
( rumbling from phaser strikes )
NEELIX: I've always thought
of my piloting skills
as modest, at best,
were extremely dangerous.
and the conditions
those Akritirians, didn't I?
Still, I did outmaneuver
You did a terrific
job, Neelix.
Excellent piloting.
I agree.
I'm glad to hear you
say that, Captain,
because I've been thinking...
gets back on his feet,
Until Tom here
perhaps I could try my hand
at conn for a while.
be necessary.
That won't
Lieutenant Paris
is just fine,
thanks to excellent
doctoring.
I finished analyzing
these implants,
to know that the treatment
and you'll be happy
I provided will
successfully
counteract their
effect on you.
was the effect?
What exactly
My readings indicate
that the implants
to stimulate the production
are designed
in the hypothalamus.
of acetylcholine
That would explain
the agitation.
is a brain chemical
Hm. Acetylcholine
structures of most humanoids.
common to the neural
it helps stimulate
Essentially,
one's aggressive
tendencies.
Zio was right.
( sighs )
Come on, Harry.
for that steak dinner.
We're overdue
I guess so.
What do you mean,
you guess so?
It's the thought
of that dinner
that kept us going.
do you think?
So what
Uh, a baked potato?
deep-fried onion rings?
A big mound of
Tom...
some grilled mushrooms.
Maybe, maybe, uh...
Tom, listen to me.
I...
I almost killed you.
What are you saying?
that kept me alive.
You're the one
I was ready to hit
you with the pipe.
Don't you remember?
You want to know
what I remember?
"This man is my friend.
Someone saying,
Nobody touches him."
I'll remember that
for a long time.
So, what do you say
we blow
of replicator rations?
a week's worth
So, what's for dessert?
don't you remember?
Cherry pie,
What about the fudge
ripple pudding?
Ah! Yes...
theme music playing )
( dramatic